---
status: new
---

# Firmware Updates

The Firmware panel (**Maintenance > Firmware**) shows information about system and disk firmware versions, and enables you to perform firmware updates.

[*Reference*](https://www.dell.com/support/manuals/en-us/powervault-me5084/me5_series_ag/viewing-information-about-installed-and-active-system-firmware-bundles?guid=guid-177a1c92-fe95-450b-8a06-45c162ec9f2b&lang=en-us)

## Controller Module Firmware

Partner Firmware Update (PFU) is enabled by default and allows the system to automatically update the partner controller when the primary controller is updated. Disable PFU only if requested by a service technician. Controller modules must run the same firmware version.

### Update Controller Firmware

1. Download the firmware from Dell.com.
2. Go to **Maintenance > Firmware > System**.
3. Click, **Browse For File** and browse to the downloaded firmware bundle.
4. Follow the on-screen directions and [Best Practices](me5-best-practice.md#firmware-updates) for updating firmware.
5. Go to **Maintenance > Firmware > System** and click its **Activate this Version** link to display the Activate Firmware dialog.
6. Follow the on-screen directions to start the activation.

After the local controller module has restarted, the PowerVault Manager login screen is displayed. Log back in and go to the **Maintenance > Firmware** panel to verify that the new firmware is active on the system. 

If firmware activation fails, go to **Maintenance > Support > Collect Logs** and enter the necessary fields and collect the logs. The logs are needed for any support request that is generated by this failure.

[*Reference*](https://www.dell.com/support/manuals/en-us/powervault-me5084/me5_series_ag/updating-system-firmware?guid=guid-8b069aea-95c7-41ee-9940-a2ccc7244356&lang=en-us)

## Disk Firmware

The Disks tab shows information about each disk in the system and its firmware, and whether firmware updates are available. Disk location is show in the format `<enclosure-number>.<disk-slot-number>`.

### Update the Disk Firmware

!!! warning

      Before updating disk firmware, [stop I/O](me5-shutdown-controller.md) to the storage system. During the update all volumes will be temporarily inaccessible to hosts. If I/O is not stopped, mapped hosts will report I/O errors. Volume access is restored after the update completes.

The process to update disk firmware is to upload a firmware file from the manufacturer, select the disks to update, and then apply the update to those disks. A dual-ported disk drive can be updated from either controller. For details, follow the onscreen directions and [Best Practices](me5-best-practice.md#firmware-updates) for updating firmware.

[*Reference*](https://www.dell.com/support/manuals/en-us/powervault-me5084/me5_series_ag/updating-disk-firmware?guid=guid-86f0cfbf-eaa2-4a27-8e87-3958ac0550c4&lang=en-us)
