# OS10 Network Operating System

!!! note

    This section isn't as complete as my OS9 docs. These are just the quick and dirty notes I took while messing around with OS10 in GNS3 prior to knowing the Dell switches we ordered would run OS9. Might be worth coming back to at some point if/when we ever jump over to OS10.

When labbing in GNS3, it takes quite a bit a time for the OS10 appliances to boot the first time. Be patient. Login with linuxadmin/linuxadmin and then logout. Skipping this will result in an "incorrect login" notice when trying to login to the default admin/admin. I have no idea why that is...

[This](https://sharifulhoque.blogspot.com/2021/07/stacking-switches-part-vi-dell-os10-vlt.html) was a helpful companion to the [Dell VLT docs](https://www.dell.com/support/manuals/en-us/dell-emc-smartfabric-os10/smartfabric-os-user-guide-10-5-3/configure-vlt?guid=guid-d858a76d-b0ed-46ce-a7dd-0624235d92bc&lang=en-us).

The switch I used for the VLT peers and access switch in this lab - "Dell OS10 S5248F-10.5.6.0.47".

> **NOTE** The default QEMU adapter count in the appliance's settings is 10. I tried to expand this to 57 get the full range of the appliance's interfaces (1/1/1-1/1/56), but the appliance failed to boot. I left it at 10 and just used the first 10 interfaces (1x mgmt, 9x eth).

## Setting the hostnames

VLT Peer 1

```shell
OS10# configure
OS10(config)# hostname VLT-1
VLT-1(config)#
```

VLT Peer 2

```shell
OS10# configure
OS10(config)# hostname VLT-2
VLT-2(config)#
```

Access switch

```shell
OS10# configure
OS10(config)# hostname ACCESS
ACCESS(config)#
```

## OOB management Interface Configuration

```shell
VLT-1# configure
VLT-1(config)# interface mgmt 1/1/1
VLT-1(conf-if-ma-1/1/1)# no ip address dhcp
VLT-1(conf-if-ma-1/1/1)# ip address 10.1.1.1/24
VLT-1(conf-if-ma-1/1/1)# exit
VLT-1(config)# exit
VLT-1# show running-configuration interface mgmt 1/1/1
!
interface mgmt1/1/1
 no shutdown
 no ip address dhcp
 ip address 10.1.1.1/24
 ipv6 address autoconfig
VLT-1#
```

> I set VLT-2 to 10.1.1.2

## Configure VLT

### 1. Enable STP globally on each peer

```shell
VLT-1# configure
VLT-1(config)# spanning-tree mode rstp
```

### 2. Create a VLT domain on each VLT peer

> The VLT domain requires an ID number (1-255). Configure the same ID on both peers.

```shell
VLT-1(config)# vlt-domain 1
VLT-1(conf-vlt-1)# exit
```

### 3. Configure VLTi interfaces on each VLT peer

> Before you configure the VLTi on peer interfaces, remove each interface from L2 mode with `no switchport`. This is shown below.
>
> **NOTE** Dell did not mention any specific requirements for the interfaces used for VLTi. They just insist on deploying more than one as best practice.

```shell
VLT-1(config)# interface ethernet 1/1/8
VLT-1(conf-if-eth1/1/9)# no switchport
VLT-1(conf-if-eth1/1/9)# exit
VLT-1(config)# interface ethernet 1/1/9
VLT-1(conf-if-eth1/1/9)# no switchport
VLT-1(conf-if-eth1/1/9)# exit
VLT-1(config)# vlt-domain 1
VLT-1(conf-vlt-1)# discovery-interface ethernet 1/1/8-1/1/9
```

### 4. (Optional) Manually configure the same default VLT MAC address on each VLT peer. This minimizes the time required to sync the default MAC of the VLT domain on both peers when one reboots

> While configuring a VLT MAC address, if the 8th bit of the MAC address is a 1, then the MAC address is considered to be a multicast MAC address. There are locally defined MAC addresses. For these addresses, the second least significant bit in the first byte must be a 1, which signifies a locally defined address.
>
>The correct MAC addresses must have xxxxxx10 bits set in the first octet, such as x2, x6, xA, xE, and so on.
>
> I fed that information to Chat-GPT to generate a MAC address for me.

```shell
VLT-1(conf-vlt-1)# vlt-mac C2:AC:50:08:FE:D9
```

### 5. Configure VLT heartbeat backup link on each VLT peer

> Dell [recommends using the OOB management network connection for the VLT backup link](https://www.dell.com/support/manuals/en-us/dell-emc-smartfabric-os10/smartfabric-os-user-guide-10-5-3/configure-the-vlt-peer-liveliness-check?guid=guid-d140525e-19a1-4d53-8334-e7ec196a9da1&lang=en-us).
>
> The backup destination is the IP address of the peer that is not the local switch.

*VLT Peer 1*:

```shell
VLT-1(conf-vlt-1)# backup destination 10.1.1.2
```

*VLT Peer 2*:

```shell
VLT-2(conf-vlt-1)# backup destination 10.1.1.1
```

It was at this point that I linked eth 1/1/8-1/1/9 of each switch together. VLT Peer 1 immediately recognized both links and indicated that `VLT unit 2 is up` and that `VLT interconnect link between unit 1 and unit 2 is up`. However, when I checked the status of the heartbeat link, it was down. This made sense. The backup links couldn't communicate with eachother because they weren't physically connected to a network. For the purposes of this lab, I directly connected the management interfaces of each switch together. In a production environment, the heart beat will traverse the management network the interfaces are connected to.

```shell
VLT-1(conf-vlt-1)# exit
VLT-1(config)# show vlt 1 backup-link
VLT Backup Link
------------------------
Destination                    : 10.1.1.2
Peer Heartbeat status          : Down
Heartbeat interval             : 30
Heartbeat timeout              : 90
Destination VRF                : default
```

*Connected the management interfaces of each VLT peer together to establish the heartbeat*

```shell
VLT-1(config)#<165>1 2023-11-01T16:40:15.610812+00:00 VLT-1 dn_alm 687 - - Node.1-Unit.1:PRI [event], Dell (OS10) %VLT_HB_UP: VLT peer heartbeat link is up
VLT-1(config)# show vlt 1 backup-link
VLT Backup Link
------------------------
Destination                    : 10.1.1.2
Peer Heartbeat status          : Up    
Heartbeat interval             : 30
Heartbeat timeout              : 90
Destination VRF                : default
```

!!! info "Port channel 1000 and VLAN 4094 reservations" 

    Upon successful VLT-peer formation, the switches automatically assign a non-configurable *port-channel 1000* interface consisting of our VLTi interfaces. *VLAN 4094* is also automatically assigned to the VLTi. Each are reserved for internal VLT communication.

### 6. Configure VLT port channels (LAGs) between each VLT peer and a 3rd switch

!!! note "Remember, *port channel 1000* is reserved for VLTi communication (mentioned above). Port channel IDs can be any number between *1 to 999* or *1001 to 2000*."

```shell
VLT-1(conf-vlt-1)# exit
VLT-1(config)# interface port-channel 10
VLT-1(conf-if-po-10)# no shutdown
VLT-1(conf-if-po-10)# vlt-port-channel 10
VLT-1(conf-if-po-10)# exit
VLT-1(confg)# interface ethernet 1/1/1
VLT-1(conf-if-eth1/1/1)# channel-group 10 mode active
VLT-1(conf-if-eth1/1/1)# exit
VLT-1(config)#
```

A port-channel was also added to the access switch on interfaces eth 1/1/1 and 1/1/2...

### 7. Verification

```shell
VLT-1(config)# exit
VLT-1# show vlt 1 vlt-port-detail
vlt-port-channel ID : 10
VLT Unit ID    Port-Channel      Status    Configured ports    Active ports
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* 1            port-channel10     up        1                   0
  2            port-channel10     up        1                   0
```

> The asterisk indicates what VLT peer I am currently logged into.

I started a ping from a client PC connected to the access switch to a NIC Teamed server connected to the VLT domain. I then suspended various links between the access switch, server and VLT domain. The pings dropped 1-2 times at most before resuming in each case.

I also killed each of the VLT peers. For each peer failure test, the pings initially dropped everyother 2 packets for about 90 seconds and then traffic resumed normally. That convergence time can be reduced by adjusting the heartbeat interval and timeout values. We would have to do some real world testing to determine what values would be appropriate for our environment . . . in GNS3, the vlt debug info showed that the failover completed in about 30 seconds.

## Misc Notes

### List port groups and their members 

This will show the full range, port grouping and speed of all the interfaces on the switch.

```shell
VLT-1# show port-group

Port-group            Mode           Ports     FEM
port-group1/1/1       Eth 25g-4x     1  2  3  4     -
port-group1/1/2       Eth 25g-4x     5  6  7  8     -
port-group1/1/3       Eth 25g-4x     9  10  11  12     -
port-group1/1/4       Eth 25g-4x     13  14  15  16     -
port-group1/1/5       Eth 25g-4x     17  18  19  20     -
port-group1/1/6       Eth 25g-4x     21  22  23  24     -
port-group1/1/7       Eth 25g-4x     25  26  27  28     -
port-group1/1/8       Eth 25g-4x     29  30  31  32     -
port-group1/1/9       Eth 25g-4x     33  34  35  36     -
port-group1/1/10      Eth 25g-4x     37  38  39  40     -
port-group1/1/11      Eth 25g-4x     41  42  43  44     -
port-group1/1/12      Eth 25g-4x     45  46  47  48     -
port-group1/1/13      Eth 100g-2x    49  50     -
port-group1/1/14      Eth 100g-2x    51  52     -
port-group1/1/15      Eth 100g-1x    53         -
port-group1/1/16      Eth 100g-1x    54         -
port-group1/1/17      Eth 100g-1x    55         -
port-group1/1/18      Eth 100g-1x    56         -

```

### Example of "undoing" a command/setting

I misconfigured a port channel on the "access" switch connected to the VLT domain and needed to figure out how to remove/undo the settings. This is how I did it:

```shell
ACCESS(config)# interface ethernet 1/1/2
ACCESS(conf-if-eth1/1/2)# show configuration
!
interface ethernet1/1/2
 no shutdown
 channel-group 20 mode active #(1)
 no switchport
 flowcontrol receive off
ACCESS(conf-if-eth1/1/2)# no channel-group #(2)
ACCESS(conf-if-eth1/1/2)# show configuration
!
interface ethernet1/1/2
 no shutdown
 switchport access vlan 1 #(3)
 flowcontrol receive off
```

1. I meant to add the interface to `port-channel 10`, but accidentally added it to `20`. 
2. Here I removed the port channel from the interface with the `no` command. I then checked the configuration again to see if the port channel was removed.
3. All this was is that the switch placed the interface back into VLAN 1 (the default) since it was removed from the port channel.

**Orphan port** - I saw this in the Dell docs a few times an had no idea what it referred to. Whenever they use that term, they are making reference to a port that is NOT part of a VLT port-channel (LAG).

**Upstream member** - Typically the top of rack switch that connects to the VLT domain.

**Downstream member** - The device on the other side of the VLT domain...typically a server.

So, in our GNS3 lab . . . The switch labeled "Access" is the upstream member and the "Server" is the downstream member. The client PC is connected to the access switch via an orphan port.

### VLT config in one shot 

```shell
OS10# configure terminal
OS10(config)# hostname VLT-2
VLT-2(config)# interface mgmt 1/1/1
VLT-2(conf-if-ma-1/1/1)# show configuration
!
interface mgmt1/1/1
 no shutdown
 ip address dhcp
 ipv6 address autoconfig
VLT-2(conf-if-ma-1/1/1)# no ip address dhcp
VLT-2(conf-if-ma-1/1/1)# ip address 10.1.1.2/24
VLT-2(conf-if-ma-1/1/1)# no shutdown
VLT-2(conf-if-ma-1/1/1)# copy running-configuration startup-configuration
VLT-2(conf-if-ma-1/1/1)# exit
VLT-2(config)# spanning-tree mode rstp
VLT-2(config)# vlt-domain domain 1
VLT-2(config)# vlt-domain 1
VLT-2(conf-vlt-1)# exit
VLT-2(config)# interface ethernet 1/1/8
VLT-2(conf-if-eth1/1/8)# no switchport
VLT-2(conf-if-eth1/1/8)# exit
VLT-2(config)# interface ethernet 1/1/9
VLT-2(conf-if-eth1/1/9)# no switchport
VLT-2(conf-if-eth1/1/9)# exit
VLT-2(config)# vlt-domain 1
VLT-2(conf-vlt-1)# discovery-interface ethernet 1/1/8-1/1/9
VLT-2(conf-vlt-1)# vlt-mac C2:AC:50:08:FE:D9
VLT-2(conf-vlt-1)# backup destination 10.1.1.1
VLT-2(conf-vlt-1)# exit
VLT-2(config)# interface port-channel 10
VLT-2(conf-if-po-10)# no shutdown
VLT-2(conf-if-po-10)# vlt-port-channel 10
VLT-2(conf-if-po-10)# exit
VLT-2(config)# interface ethernet 1/1/1
VLT-2(conf-if-eth1/1/1)# channel-group 10 mode active
VLT-2(conf-if-eth1/1/1)# exit
VLT-2(config)#
```

### Unexpected behavior while testing failure scenarios

In short, I simulated various failures in GNS3; VLT peer failure, link failures and VLTi failures. The results were not always what I expected. 

I started with link failures. I paused the "upstream" and "downstream" links of the VLT peers - Each link individually and then both links at the same time. There were no issues with the first VLT peer's links being killed. I don't even recall the pings dropping at all. However, when I tried this on the "other side" of the VLT domain, all traffic halted and never recovered. I suppose the reason why it appeared to work the first time is because that flow of traffic wasn't running over that side of the VLT domain...so it was never really cut off.

I stopped the pings, rebooted the VLT peers and carried on with testing VLT peer failure. I experienced similar results. Killing one VLT peer posed no issue whatsoever, while the other appeared to black hole the traffic. I ran my tests a hand ful of times to see if I could confirm that it was an issue with a particular switch, but it was not. It appeared to be random...dependant on which ever way the flow was going. 

This left me more than confused. I double checked my work and couldn't find where I might have went wrong. Then sometime later I came across two separate docs from Dell that might explain what was going on. I still don't fully understand it if I'm being honest.

!!! quote "[Dell VLT Technical Guide](https://i.dell.com/sites/content/business/large-business/merchandizing/en/Documents/Dell_Force10_S4810_VLT_Technical_Guide.pdf)"

    At start-up time, once the physical ports are active a newly started VLT peer takes several seconds to fully negotiate protocols and synchronize. The attached devices are not aware of that activity and upon activation of a physical interface, the connected device will start forwarding traffic on the restored link, despite the VLT peer unit being still unprepared. It will black-hole traffic.

    Dampening (or equivalent) should be configured on the attached device. Dampening will temporarily hold an interface down after a VLT peer device reload. A reload is detected as a flap: the link goes down and then up. Suggested dampening time is 30 seconds to 1 minute.

!!! quote "[VLT Failover Testing Recommendation](https://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/en-my/000156155/force-10-vlt-failover-testing-recommendation-and-the-effect-of-the-failover-testing-by-shutting-all-the-interfaces-except-the-management-interface?dgc=SM&cid=304571&lid=spr9510538693&refid=sm_LITHIUM_spr9510538693&linkId=209464014)"

    During failover testing, it is common mistake that the administrator shutdown all the interfaces manually, except the management. This active management link allows VLT heartbeat exchange between the VLT peers though VLT peer status is down . . . network administrators may assume that the traffic will be switched to vlt secondary. But this failover will not happen. Instead, in this scenario the VLT Po on VLT secondary will also get shut down automatically and cause a complete network outage.

I tested the following recommended failover tests and had no issues with the execption of number 2:

1. Shutdown VLT Port-channel on one of the peer.
2. Reboot one of the VLT peer.
3. Shutdown VLTi, VLT Port-channel and Management interface(or any interface used to reach VLT backup destination) on  the VLT peer.

I assume that test 2 didn't work due to a lack of "port dampening" on the access switch. I attempted to configure it, but all I came up with was bgp dampening. Taking a look at the OS9 to OS10 CLI mapping doc...link dampening is not presentin OS10.