# ATP800

## ZyXEL Device HA Pro

> Originally written on 8/02/23. "Device HA Pro" can be used to implement VRRP.

The Device HA Pro setup flow is as follows:

- Phase 1: Configure Device HA Pro on the first device (active).
- Phase 2: Configure Device HA Pro on the second device (passive).
- Phase 3: Finalize deployment and test. 

> Note: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i7lzlH3meCc - YouTube user simulates a failure.

### Before You Begin

1. Back-up the configuration of the router that is already deployed. 
2. Make sure your Device HA Pro license is activated. 
3. Enable FTP on both units and maintain the default port of 21.
4. Match the firmware on both partitions of each device. 
5. The passive device should ONLY have a PC connected to it for Web GUI access and NO heartbeat cable from the start. 
6. The passive device should be RESET to factory defaults.
7. The passive device should be registered with MyZyXEL. (I'm assuming the primary device should be as well)

#### Hardware Requirements

- 1 Modem
- 2 Switches (A "WAN Switch" and a "LAN Switch")
- 2 ZyXEL Firewalls (Active device and passive device)

#### Network Topology

Modem > "WAN Switch" > Routers A & B > "LAN Switch" > Client Network

- Modem connected to "WAN Switch"
- "WAN Switch" connected to Routers A & B using their WAN 1 ports.
- Routers A & B connected to "LAN Switch" using their P1 ports.
- "LAN Switch" connects to the rest of the network. 

### Configuring Device HA Pro

#### Active Device

1. Log into the web interface
2. Navigate to Configuration > Device HA > Device HA Pro
3. Uncheck the "Enable Configuration Provisioning From ACtive Device" option. 
4. Verify that the serial number is the primary S/N.
5. Provide an IP address for the active device.
6. Provide an IP address for the passive device within the same subnet.
7. Provide a subnet mask.
8. Create a sync password.
9. Select the monitor interfaces from the available list and move them over to the member list. 
10. Configure your desired failover detection settings. 
11. Click the "Apply & switch to Device HA Pro" button. 
12. Head back to the Device HA tab and enable Device HA feature for the active firewall.
13. Verify that Device HA Mode is set to "Device HA Pro".
14. Check the box to enable Device HA.
15. Click "Apply". 

#### Passive Device

> Remember, the only thing that should be connected to the passive device at this point is a PC for access to the web interface. After you've configured HA you can then connect the heartbeat cable . . . ONLY the heartbeat cable. You may connect the rest of the ports only after the SYS LED and the heartbeat port's lights are on. This will happen once the sync is complete. 

1. Log into the web interface
2. Navigate to Configuration > Device HA > Device HA Pro
3. Make sure the "Enable Configuration Provisioning From Active Device” is checked.
4. Click the "Apply & switch to Device HA Pro" button.
5. Head back to the Device HA tab and enable Device HA feature for the passive firewall.
6. Verify that Device HA Mode is set to "Device HA Pro".
7. Check the box to enable Device HA.
8. Click "Apply". 

You may now connect an ethernet cable to the heartbeat port on both devices and allow about 5 minutes for the devices to sync. At this point, the Device HA Pro feature is configured and any changes made to the primary (active) firewall will sync to the secondary (passive) firewall.

> Note: Be sure to enable the “Connectivity Check” for the WAN connection(s). Enabling this option will allow the Zyxel firewall to test for internet access and switch over to the secondary internet connection of the passive device if it fails on the active device.
