# powervault me4

## Pools

!!! info

    A pool is an aggregation of one or more disk groups that serves as a container for volumes. Virtual and linear storage systems both use pools. A disk group is a group of disks of the same type, using a specific RAID level that is incorporated as a component of a pool, that stores volume data. For virtual pools, when volumes are added to a pool the data is distributed across the pool's disk groups. For linear pools, which can only have one disk group per pool, volumes are also added to the pool, which contains the volume data.

### Add a disk group

You can create virtual or linear disk groups through the *Add Disk Group* panel in the PowerVault Manager.

!!! note

    After you create a disk group using one storage type, the system uses that storage type for additional disk groups. To switch to the other type, you must first remove all disk groups.

Use the top section to:

1. Name and define the disk group.
2. Select the pool that it resides on (only appears for virtual and read cache disk groups).
3. Choose its data protection (RAID) level.

Use the middle section to:

1. Review the Disk Selection summary.
2. Verify that the *Complete* check box is green to indicate the minimum number of required disks to create the group have been selected.
      - Note: For dedicated spares, the check box is always green.

The bottom section lists the disks that are located within each enclosure in your system. Add disks to the disk group by doing one of the following:

- Select a range of disks within an enclosure by entering a comma-separated list that contains the enclosure number and disk range in the Enter Range of Disks text box. Use the format `enclosure-number.disk-range,enclosure-number.disk-range`. For example, to select disks 3-12 in enclosure 1 and disks 5-23 in enclosure 2, enter `1.3-12,2.5-23`.
- Select all disks by selecting the Select All checkbox (shocking).
- Filter the disks in the list per disk type, enclosure ID, slot location, disk size, or health by entering applicable search criteria in the text box. Clear the filter by clicking the Clear Filters button (gasp).
- Click individual disks within the table to select them and add them to the disk group.

### Remove a disk group

1. In the Pools topic, select the pool for the disk groups that you are deleting in the pools table. Then, select the disk groups in the Related Disk Groups table.
2. Select **Action > Remove Disk Groups**. The Remove Disk Groups panel opens.
3. Click **OK**.
4. Click **Yes** to continue. Otherwise, click **No**. If you clicked Yes, the disk groups and their volumes are deleted, the pool for the disk groups might be deleted, the disks for the disk groups become available, and the Related Disk Groups table is updated.

### Expand a disk group

1. In the Pools topic, select the pool for the disk group that you are expanding. Then select the disk group in the Expand Disk Group table.
2. Select **Action > Expand Disk Group**. The Expand Disk Group panel opens displaying disk group information and disk tables.
3. For disk groups with RAID-10 or RAID-50 configurations, choose the number of new sub-groups in the Additional Sub-groups list.
4. Select additional disks that you want to add to the disk group from the table in the bottom section.
5. Click **Modify**. A confirmation panel appears.
6. Click **Yes** to continue. Otherwise click **No**. If you clicked Yes, the disk group expansion starts.
7. To close the confirmation panel, click **OK**.

### Managing spare disks (for fault tolerance)

!!! info

    Spare disks are unused disks in your system that you designate to automatically replace a failed disk, restoring fault tolerance to disk groups in the system. Types of spares include:

    - Dedicated spare. Reserved for use by a specific linear disk group to replace a failed disk. Most secure way to provide spares for disk groups, but expensive to reserve a spare for each disk group.
    - Global spare. Reserved for use by any fault-tolerant disk group to replace a failed disk.
    - Dynamic spare. Available compatible disk that is automatically assigned to replace a failed disk in a fault-tolerant disk group.

#### Add global spares

1. In the Pools topic, select **Action > Manage Spare**. The Manage Spare panel opens.
2. To add global spares, click on the available disks to highlight them.
3. Click **Add Spares**. The system updates the global spares and a confirmation panel opens.
4. To close the confirmation panel, click **OK**.

#### Add dedicated spares

1. In the Pools topic, select the linear pool for the disk group that you are modifying in the pools table. Then, select the disk group in the Related Disk Groups table.
2. Select **Action > Manage Spares**. The Manage Spares panel opens.
3. Check the **Assign dedicated spares to the disk group** box, then select the disk group in which you want the dedicated spare to reside.
4. In the Add New Spares section, click on available disks to select them.
5. Click **Add Spares**. The system updates the dedicated spares and a confirmation panel appears.
6. To close the confirmation panel, click **OK**.

## Volumes and volume groups

!!! info

    A volume is a logical subdivision of a virtual or linear pool and can be mapped to host-based applications. A mapped volume provides addressable storage to a host (for example, a file system partition you create with your operating system or third-party tools).

## Volume mapping

!!! info

    Mappings between a volume and one or more initiators, hosts, or host groups enable hosts to view and access the volume. There are two types of maps that can be created: default maps and explicit maps. Default maps enable all hosts to see the volume using a specified LUN and access permissions. Default mapping applies to any host that has not been explicitly mapped using different settings.

!!! note

     A LUN identifies a mapped volume to a host. Both controllers share a set of LUNs, and any unused LUN can be assigned to a mapping.

## S4048-ON

### Access Control Lists

#### Configure a Standard IP ACL

Create a standard IP ACL in the IP ACL LIST mode by naming a standard IP access list:

```shell
DellEMC# ip access-list standard acl-1
DellEMC(config-std-nacl)# permit 10.1.0.0/16
DellEMC(config-std-nacl)# remark 1 permit 10.1.0.0    #(1)
DellEMC(config-std-nacl)# remark 2 assigned to VTY lines 0-9
DellEMC(config-std-nacl)# show config
!
ip access-list standard acl-1
remark 1 permit 10.1.0.0 on VTY lines 0-9
remark 2 assigned to VTY lines 0-9
 seq 5 permit 10.1.0.0/16
```

1. The `remark` command is similar to the `description` command. It is used to add comments. Multiple remarks can be added.

### Role Based Access Control (RBAC)

ToDo . . .

### Configuring privilege levels

Privilege levels restrict access to commands based on user or terminal line.

There are 16 privilege levels, of which three are pre-defined:

- Level 0: Access to the system begins at EXEC mode, and EXEC mode commands are limited to `enable`,
`disable`, and `exit`.
Level 1: Access to the system begins at EXEC mode, and all commands are available.
Level 15: Access to the system begins at EXEC Privilege mode, and all commands are available.

#### Creating a custom privilege level

Custom privilege levels start with the default EXEC mode command set. You can then customize the privilege levels 2-14 by:

- Restricting access to an EXEC mode command. (document)
- Restricting commands from EXEC Privilege to EXEC mode. (document)
- Restricting access.

#### Allowing access to different modes

Similar to allowing access to CONFIGURATION mode, to allow access to INTERFACE, LINE, ROUTE-MAP, and ROUTER modes,
you must first allow access to the command that enters you into the mode. For example, to allow a user to enter INTERFACE
mode, use the `privilege configure level <level> interface tengigabitethernet` command.

